I've never anything like it you don't
know you were there it was he he it was
beautiful what's up everybody welcome
back from watching Twin Peaks to return
part 9 we got a lot to talk about this
week I'm just waiting on Greg he's just
a couple minutes but I got coming he's
broken is he okay
no he's really not take a look whoa all
right um be sure to subscribe to see if
Greg ever gets his mind back and we also
do a lot of great TV breakdowns right
Ryan yeah in fact let's just get to the
lively conversation about part 9 right
now yeah let's see
[Music]
okay so we had a lot of converging plot
lines this week going back to last week
we were trying to figure out what fit
together where but now a lot of stuff
got connected yeah
plot moving forward not another party it
all over again exactly so we've got mr.
Cooper coming together with a few plot
lines we've got more on dougie
and plenty happened in Twin Peaks
finally first off mr. Cooper connects
with hutch played by Tim Roth and we
finally seen and now of course we can
confirm that Tim Roth is not playing
Phillip Jeffries and Rebecca shantel as
well we finally learned that Cooper was
controlling Duncan Todd in Vegas I have
to admit that something I was somewhat
skeptical about I had these feelings
last week like the style of Lynch's
storytelling of the Cooper character was
so close to what he was doing that the
relationship with Todd to the mysterious
guy was totally different from that like
the storytelling there wasn't a clear
through line though where there was of
everything else that he was doing but
now we have official confirmation that
mr. Cooper was control his controlling
Todd yes yes he asked hot if he did
something for him but we don't know what
that is we're assuming that he's off the
dougie hit case which sounds like it was
reassigned to Chantal and Hutch I guess
right I think you've lost faith after
several failed attempts on the Todd side
so that suggests that he's got Todd onto
another assignment and we don't know
what that is yeah is that also Chantal
sent off mr. Cooper with the nice bag of
cheetos which i think is really even
better than a goodbye kiss yeah I
totally loved that touch you should just
you know swab we pulled over pocket and
affectionately places it in his hand
it's great it's delicious good moment
and in a scary twist we find out mr.
Cooper is communicating with Diane dun
dun dun he sends her a text message it
says around the dinner table the
conversation is lively what could that
mean not sure what that means but the
fact that he's messaging her is a little
bit scary I mean she's definitely had a
lot of like kind of a mean attitude so
far but now don't
feel sinister the possibility that she
could be actually in with Cooper how
long have they been communicating that's
a good question
she was clearly waiting for that message
to come through and her performance
maybe now we can call it a performance
at the jail was so thoroughly convincing
and sincere that I wonder if it was
something that didn't develop in the
meantime or if she actually is that much
of a sinister actor so the FBI has been
connected at last with their Air Forces
major Briggs investigation that involves
Bill Hastings I think that Matthew
Lillard was so good in this episode I
got his performance is great because he
does freaked out
so well I mean you can just see like
that is perfect casting zoinks and then
hasting describes what sounds like his
attendance of major Briggs is murder in
a parallel dimension right we find out
all sorts of like kind of weird things
now about Hastings you know prior to
this we didn't know very much about him
we were hypothesizing that he was like a
repeat of Leland Palmer maybe but now we
know something quite different that he's
an enthusiast about other worlds and
other dimensions and has for some time
in trying to research these sorts of
things of him and Routh right and they
finally found what they were looking for
and also the major a cave of numbers
started to float up and he said some
words Cooper Cooper right before I said
disappeared the other interesting thing
though about what he says is that when
the majors had floated up and all of
that stuff that he says he indicates
that there were a lot of people there as
well and so what could be Woodsman maybe
or if it's not woodsman then that opens
all kinds of doors that we don't know
another thing that I was sort of
noticing during that sequence was that
in terms of the editing
and cinematography there was quite a lot
of attention paid to Albert's reactions
to what bill was saying and it's I've
had this creeping feeling for a little
while that maybe Albert ain't such a
good guy anymore either how could you
say such a thing it's just a mighty
feeling that I have you know his earlier
conversation the the very blue
conversation in part four there seemed
to be something going on there too and I
can't quite put my finger on it but I
kind of don't trust Albert right now
also the FBI now has Dougie's wedding
ring and the connection hasn't quite
been made yet right and this is part of
these plot lines converging you know
we've been waiting for these things to
start to line up and now that they have
the wedding ring they're that much
closer to actually finding it exactly
but we're not there yet
yeah this brings us to dougie what's
going on with dougie our weekly check-in
with dougie sorry guys how long is it
gonna dougie
who knows who can tell maybe maybe for
the rest of the series I would be
authorized I wouldn't be surprised
anyway interesting parts of that flat
line this week the bumbling Fusco
brothers actually finally do some good
police work they did they have the
brilliant idea to sneak out his coffee
mug and go get prints we're going to see
how that develops I'm going to pull the
prints on the DNA off of that and see
who do you think that they're going to
get from it is it going to be Dale
Cooper is it going to be dougie Jones
what do you think I mean the the good
money is that it's Dale Cooper right
that's what all signs point to but then
there could be another flip in here that
we're not ready for maybe he has old
maybe all of his fingerprints are
backwards who knows well that we'll see
also the Cisco's finally apprehended Ike
the spike they got him and they made a
nice joke of his call yeah once again
that's you know more of these plot lines
converging that now they have a live
another life person in custody who is
connected through this through the food
chain - mr. Cooper just getting that
much closer
speaking of jelly let's check in with
Greg
see how he's doing as Greg doing out
there well at least he's staying
hydrated anyway back to the plot right
okay so in fact now there was something
that maybe did shine a little ray of
hope for Dale Cooper fans he has a
moment while he's sitting in the police
waiting room where he's staring at the
American flag America the Beautiful is
lately playing in the background
couldn't tell if it was playing for him
in his head or we're just hearing it I
was watching it not totally sure but
then a woman walks in with red
high-heeled shoes totally takes his
attention away from the flag and as
she's crossing she passes an electrical
socket and that takes his attention back
back to the electrical sockets again are
we getting closer to Dale Cooper it
feels like it I hope so but my personal
concern is that this is just the sort of
permanent state of Doug you know and if
anything I think it's actually maybe
likely that we're only going to see Doug
II like this in the real world and
there's definitely going to be things
happening in the other place as the
season progresses the the cops are
getting the the twin peaks' cops are
getting closer to finding the entrance
mr. Cooper is getting closer to finding
an entrance I think eventually we might
see Dale again in the other place but
maybe not ever again in the real world
and speaking of those red shoes just to
cut in it might be a reference to Audrey
I'm hoping I don't know maybe or it
could be a reference to fire walk with
me and that weird lady that shows up and
she's wearing all red and she's also got
the red shoes on right when Chet Desmond
meets with Gordon Cole there's a coded
dance that his performance performed for
the FBI agents that's supposed to give
them information as a side note Mullins
also talks about Dougie's car accident
and that's why people aren't weirded out
by the way he's acting like he's got in
a car accident before he started working
there so from time to time he gets a
little Dougy right as we've been calling
it I like how we finally have
explanation for why nobody is weirded
out by his behavior nobody's taken him
to the hospital yet he said that they
would come and ask me about Special
Agent Dale Cooper now sort of last in
the string of plot lines we have
everything that's going on in Twin Peaks
and this week we got quite a lot to go
on
the biggest thing of course is that
Bobby Briggs sheriff Truman and Hawk
I'll go to see Betty Briggs and I think
this is another one of the better scenes
in the entire series it's got a really
heartwarming quality it's very nostalgic
it's reminiscent of the diner scene with
Bobby and major Briggs in the original
series that's also extremely
heartwarming but in terms of plot some
of the important things we learn are
that first of all major Briggs knew that
this day was going to come and warned
his wife 25 years ago and gave her
something to give to them and said
exactly who would be there well she
didn't know it would be that sheriff
Truman right
and so she hands over a cylinder and I
think it almost sort of like typical
Lynch fashion they just take it and go
have coffee don't have any further
conversation about it what's that sound
of coffee all right yeah cherries also
on mrs. bridges them the chair if you're
listening to the music it sounds
extremely similar to the original score
from the original Twin Peaks but it's
not quite the same we looked it up and
it's not the same exact song but it
sounds very familiar
Lynch again playing with sort of echoes
and characters and themes which he
always does it well
this is the chair I can't believe this
day has come watch right here
later they kicked out Chad from the
conference room because he sucks he's
trying to eat lunch but then they're
trying to open the cylinder and they go
back outside again which seems kind of
weird they could have just done this
outside but anyway Bobby remembers how
it opened one of these crazy cigar
cylinders because his dad showed him
once before it just slams it on the
ground and then it opens up right and
from that we get two very sort of
cryptic pieces of paper presumably the
force from major brakes yeah the first
page has instructions about going
somewhere near Jackrabbits palace which
is something we find out as a location
that Bobby and major Briggs went to when
he was younger
besides that we see the return of 253
both as expressed at time and also as
distance and we see a rendering of the
alcove symbol above one of the Twin
Peaks and this for the first time I
think really does look quite a lot like
the image on the ace of spades those
match completely like I I thought the
ace of spades before the little hook
things were like kind of small on
antenna looking but that particular
rendering on that piece of paper is sort
of almost an intermediate looks very
similar to both and I think maybe that
more or less confirms that mr. Cooper is
going for the same thing and that's
where we're all headed and then we have
the second page and it has a series of
number and letter codes broken by two
instances of Cooper or maybe two and a
half it says Cooper Cooper kun
to Cooper's write it there's definitely
like the beginning of another Cooper on
that piece of paper but one of the cool
things out of that scene is that we get
Hawk saying to Cooper's and that just
sort of plants the seed I think that is
going to continue in their investigation
yeah so I said Cooper Cooper couid cut
off so do you think that it might be
dougie who's the half Cooper I like that
idea
Doug you sort of a half Cooper really
that that could work next we got horns
lots of horns four of them and none of
them are Audrey
Audrey watch 2017 continues and she is
nowhere to be seen
still no Audrey but we do get the return
of mrs. Horne and Johnny Horne who
people may remember from the original
series as being the slow member of the
family and here we see him running
through the house and either knocking
himself cold or killing himself perhaps
yes Olivia's like who let him out so we
don't know who let him out but he's
running and then he hits a wall we see
frames fall on the ground and we see a
hole in the wall with some blood it
looks like he was breathing though I
think that he might be just he needs to
go to the hospital right yeah probably
alive but if he's not some people have
suggested that that might be what it
takes to get Audrey back to Twin Peaks
so maybe sort of hoping that he's not
well I think she'd still be a good
sister and show up at the hospitals as
you think
we can hope Audrey come back next we see
Ben and Beverly who continue to be
puzzled by the sound and a Great
Northern and I get a little bit too
close for comfort and avoid beginning an
affair
yeah Ben Shan is she's a changed man
this is not the Ben we once knew he
would have been all over her but now he
is shown restraint Ben has definitely
changed and then most concerning Li we
find Jerry's still in the woods how long
has he been there and now he has a
problem with a vital appendage yeah so
he's got a bad foot now maybe like a
really bad foot and besides just the
basic concerns of how is he going to get
out of the woods with this problem I'm
thinking that foots got to go
and Jerry's going to be the one-legged
man that adds up that feels real twin
peaks' to me I hope it's not true but we
could be going there and then lastly the
episode closes out with two new
characters at the Roadhouse one of the
two girls is Ella and she's clearly
strung on some drugs that are going
around and she's also got the grossest
most wicked rash that I've ever seen on
TV
me and she's working in food service so
that's really not cool for the town yeah
we could see this rash spreading quite a
bit and it's very kind of almost David
Cronenberg kind of feel to it and that
makes me think we might just be a couple
episodes away from a full-blown
Cronenberg situation all right so before
we jump into some Easter eggs let's
check in with Greg Greg boy um I'm
really worried about Greg me too
good luck buddy huh let's talk on Easter
eggs how about that okay yes so there
was a lot of use of red in this episode
so I noticed there were many many things
that were red let's run down all the red
things so we have a red handkerchief at
the beginning with mr. Cooper then we
also had red mugs at the Vegas police
station then we have the women's red
shoes and then we have the red chair
that Lucy and Andy buy on lime then we
have Lucy's outfit which is also red
Sylvia's sweater is red in the scene
where she's checking on Johnny and then
the chair in the Briggs house carrying
the hidden message also red and then the
Sun and the Crescent on major bridges
note and then lastly the pendant hasting
uses the circle and identify major
Briggs is also red so much red what does
it mean I think you're supposed to
notice them and with all of that red
stuff oddly enough no red balloons this
episode missed opportunity really could
have had a red balloon on the floor
again and confuse us all with its
presence anyway now the next Easter Egg
thing I think is so freakin cool because
it's so freakin cool yes but apparently
they went out and made Bill Hastings
website that he talks about in his
interrogation yep and it's geo cities as
heck because it's from the 90s but
anyway if you take a look at this
website there's so much that you can dig
into that we won't go through all the
Easter eggs that are in there maybe
that's a different video or maybe that's
something you should find out yourself
but a few of the things that we did
discover are that you can click into
things and find videos like if you click
into his past blogs what do we see you
there's static yeah there's a link that
says read my older writing and you click
on that and it takes you for a moment -
a fake 404 error page and then it's like
statics out and there's this continuous
actual adding I didn't get to the end of
it but it's basically a bunch of Twin
Peaks music stuff from the road house
stuff from Badalamenti with the weird
static and interstitial noises and
things and I'm sure people are going to
find lots of stuff hidden in the sound
there it sounds like they're just
playing the Twin Peaks the return
soundtrack in it it's also creeped me
out yes oh yeah it's creepy as heck
don't do it at night yeah there's also
three sound files on the main page that
you can listen to that are scratchy
electricity and vortex and there's I'm
sure stuff in there to look for - also
if you look the visitors number of
changes every time you log on it goes
backwards and forwards is this the
future or is this the past there are a
couple of interesting things though to
pay attention to with regard to dates
now the first thing is that it says that
Bill Hastings hasn't been on this site
since November 2015 and if we are in
2015 in the series then that means that
we're on September 29th we're a few days
away from October 1st and 2nd which were
in major Briggs's notes but that means
that Hastings is accessing that website
a few months later and we might have to
see what happens there he obviously
would have gotten out of jail yes also
speaking of dates you'll notice that the
site was started in 1997 which was
mentioned in the episode when they were
talking about Dougie's history so they
only found things dating back to 1997
and that's when Dougie's entire history
started to play out so Dougie and Bill
Hastings website were started at the
same time and one of the last things
that are sort of hidden on that website
is that there's some coordinates there
and the coordinates apparently go to
somewhere that's actually in South
Dakota
and apparently at least if we go to
Reddit there is a brave reddit user
named spooky 64 who is possibly actually
going to go out to those coordinates and
report back
Godspeed spooky 64 yes hopefully he
doesn't get trapped in the other place
or report back on what you find in the
other place all right let's move on to
some viewer comments what do people say
in your last video yeah I would like to
get back there and see what everyone
else is thinking
Enrico Mazzoni on YouTube writes I so
wish the millionaire might be Martell
I mean Catherine that would be awesome I
totally love that idea maybe we'll see
the return of mr. toj' mora no don't
even get me started on that but it would
leave your nineties but don't do it
again please next is a comment from
Julian Ortega who said Dale will see
Diane and that will snap him out of his
super Diane is the key I don't know
anymore I mean like he predicted this
before he saw this episode right but
Diane is involved somehow with mr.
Cooper yeah I wanted to believe that
that would be the thing people are
saying it's either Diane or it's going
to be Audrey Audrey now our concerns
about Diane have ratcheted up a little
bit and I don't think that this is going
to be the thing what is she up to
lastly we got a couple comments from
Second Coming of fast on YouTube who
says Andy is a doppelganger you saw it
here first sure uh you know hold it
possible I think it's a joke but I think
it's also fair to say that it could be
any anything is probably is past his
second comment was Audrey Horne current
madam of one-eyed jacks you saw it here
first know that I think is more applause
pretty likely I mean I have the feeling
that she's been away from Twin Peaks but
if she hasn't been the sort of unturned
stone right now is one-eyed jacks yes
all right well thanks for your comments
make sure to leave some new ones for us
below and any questions you have and
before we go let's check in with Greg
one last time okay
well we we don't know where Greg went no
but if you want to find out if we get
Greg back or if Audria will be here in
part 10 find out next week you have to
come back and always you can hit us up
on Twitter our handles are in the
description or check out these videos
there's other videos see ya